AUDIT-C Alcohol Use Questionnaire
Drinking alcohol can affect your health. This is especially important if you take certain
medications. We want to help you stay healthy and lower your risk for the problems that
can be caused by drinking. The following questions are about your drinking habits.
To help you answer correctly, we’ve listed the serving size of one drink below the questions.
Circle your answers. Then find your score in the top row above your answer. At the end, total
your scores and look at the back of this sheet to rate your drinking habits.

                                                                                                                 Your
                    Questions                              0           1           2         3          4
                                                                                                                 score
                                                                                                        4 or
                                                         I don’t
 1. How often did you have one drink containing                      Monthly    2-4 times 2-3 times    more
                                                          drink
 alcohol in the last year?                                            or less   a month a week        times a
                                                         alcohol
                                                                                                       week

 2. How many drinks containing alcohol did you
                                                                                                       10 or
 have on a typical day when you were drinking in          0 to 2      3 to 4     5 to 6     7 to 9
                                                                                                       more
 the last year?

                                                                       Less                           Daily or
 3. How often did you have six or more drinks on one
                                                          Never       than      Monthly    Weekly     almost
 occasion in the last year?
                                                                     monthly                           daily


                                                                                                       Total




Standard serving of one drink:




12 ounces of beer or malt beverage
1.5 ounces of 80 proof liquor
5 ounces of wine
4 ounces of sherry, liqueur, or aperitif




                                                       page 1 of 2                        Continued on next page
Rating your score

  For men less than 4, for women less than 3: You’re at low risk for problems caused by
  drinking.
  For men 4-6, for women 3-6: You could be at risk for problems caused by drinking
  alcohol. Making changes in your drinking habits can help lower your risk.
  For men and women 7 and above: Scores in this range could mean drinking might be
  harming your health and increasing your risk for other problems related to alcohol use.


  Talk to your health care provider about these questions and your score. He or she will be
  able to work with you to help you cut down or stop drinking, and discuss any concerns or
  questions you may have.




                                                                                                 Rev. date 2013099
  PE3894000-01-17                          page 2 of 2           © 2017 Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Washington
