                   MAHC 10 - Fall Risk Assessment Tool
       Click here to review the Validation Study of the Missouri Alliance for Home Care’s fall risk assessment tool.

Conduct a fall risk assessment on each patient at start of care and re-certification.

Patient Name:
(Circle one) SOC or Re-certification                                     Date:                       ___

                                      Required Core Elements
                           Assess one point for each core element “yes”.                                           Points
  Information may be gathered from medical record, assessment and if applicable, the patient/caregiver.
            Beyond protocols listed below, scoring should be based on your clinical judgment.

Age 65+
Diagnosis (3 or more co-existing)
Includes only documented medical diagnosis

Prior history of falls within 3 months
An unintentional change in position resulting in coming to rest on the ground or at a lower level
Incontinence
Inability to make it to the bathroom or commode in timely manner
Includes frequency, urgency, and/or nocturia.
Visual impairment
Includes but not limited to, macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathies, visual field loss, age
related changes, decline in visual acuity, accommodation, glare tolerance, depth perception, and
night vision or not wearing prescribed glasses or having the correct prescription.
Impaired functional mobility
May include patients who need help with IADLS or ADLS or have gait or transfer problems,
arthritis, pain, fear of falling, foot problems, impaired sensation, impaired coordination or improper
use of assistive devices.

Environmental hazards
May include but not limited to, poor illumination, equipment tubing, inappropriate footwear, pets,
hard to reach items, floor surfaces that are uneven or cluttered, or outdoor entry and exits.
Poly Pharmacy (4 or more prescriptions – any type)
All PRESCRIPTIONS including prescriptions for OTC meds. Drugs highly associated with fall risk
include but not limited to, sedatives, anti-depressants, tranquilizers, narcotics, antihypertensives,
cardiac meds, corticosteroids, anti-anxiety drugs, anticholinergic drugs, and hypoglycemic drugs.
Pain affecting level of function
Pain often affects an individual’s desire or ability to move or pain can be a factor in depression or
compliance with safety recommendations.
Cognitive impairment
Could include patients with dementia, Alzheimer’s or stroke patients or patients who are
confused, use poor judgment, have decreased comprehension, impulsivity, memory deficits.
Consider patients ability to adhere to the plan of care.
A score of 4 or more is considered at risk for falling                               Total

Clinician’s signature

                                              Missouri Alliance for HOME CARE
                 2420 Hyde Park, Suite A, Jefferson City, MO 65109-4731 ▪ (573) 634-7772 ▪ (573) 634-4374 Fax

  Want resources to reduce your falls rate & compare yourself with other home care agencies?
   Join MAHC’s Falls Reduction Benchmark Project – contact us today for more information!
