                                                                                                 HEALTH ASSESSMENT
                                                                                                QUESTIONNAIRE (HAQ)


 Name                                                                    PHN                                 Date (yyyy / mm / dd)




1. For each category, please check the one response that best describes your abilities over the past week.

                                                                                NO              SOME             MUCH                UNABLE
Dressing and Grooming                                                       DIFFICULTY       DIFFICULTY        DIFFICULTY             TO DO
    Dress yourself, including tying shoelaces and doing buttons

    Shampoo your hair

Rising

    Stand up from an armless chair

    Get in and out of bed

Eating

    Cut your meat

    Lift a full cup or glass to your mouth

    Open a new carton of milk

Walking

    Walk outdoors on flat ground

    Climb up five stairs

Hygiene

    Wash and dry your entire body

    Take a bath

    Get on and off the toilet

Reach

    Reach and get down a 5 lb object
    (for example, a bag of sugar from just above your head)

    Bend down to pick up clothing from the floor

Grip

    Open car doors

    Open jars which have been previously opened

    Turn taps on and off

Activities

    Run errands and shop

    Get in and out of a car

    Do chores such as vacuuming, housework or light gardening




HLTH 5383 2016/11/23                                                                                                             PAGE 1 OF 2
Name                                                                                  PHN




2. Do you usually (more than 50% of the time) use the following aids or devices for any of the activities listed on page 1?
   Check all that apply.
            Canes
            Walker
            Crutches
            Wheelchair/scooter
            Raised toilet seat
            Bath seat
            Jar opener (for jars previously opened)
            Special or built-up utensils
            Special or built-up chair
            Bath rail
            Long-handled applicance for reach
            Other (specify)


3. Do you usually (more than 50% of the time) need help from another person for any of the following? Check all that apply.
            Errands and housework
            Reaching
            Dressing and grooming
            Gripping and opening things
            Eating
            Walking
            Rising
            Hygiene


4. Please circle the number, from 0 to 10, which indicates how much pain you have had in the past week because of your
   arthritis, with 0 being “no pain” and 10 being “pain as bad as it could be”.

   PAIN SCALE RATING:            0         1          2      3         4          5         6         7          8         9         10




   PATIENT CONSENT
   Personal information on this form is collected under the authority of, and in accordance with, the British Columbia Pharmaceutical Services Act and
   Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act. It will not be disclosed to any persons without the patient’s consent.The information you provide
   will be relevant to and used solely to (a) provide PharmaCare benefits for the medication requested, (b) to implement, monitor and evaluate this
   and other Ministry programs, and (c) to manage and plan for the health system generally. If you have any questions about the collection or use of
   this information, call Health Insurance BC from Vancouver at 1-604-683-7151 or from elsewhere in BC toll free at 1-800-663-7100 and ask to consult a
   pharmacist concerning the Special Authority process.

   I authorize the prescriber to release to PharmaCare and in the Ministry of Health the information contained in this form and any other related
   information in the prescriber’s custody as required for adjudication, monitoring and evaluation.




   Patient’s Signature                                                                                Date

HLTH 5383                                                                                                                                           PAGE 2 OF 2
