                       THE HEALTH ASSESSMENT QUESTIONNAIRE©
                            Stanford University School of Medicine
                           Division of Immunology & Rheumatology

Introduction

    The Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) was developed originally in 1978 by James F.
Fries, MD, and colleagues at Stanford University. It was designed to represent a model of patient-
oriented outcome assessment. The HAQ has been administered and validated in patients with a wide
variety of rheumatic diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, juvenile rheumatoid
arthritis, lupus, scleroderma, ankylosing spondylitis, fibromyalgia, and psoriatic arthritis. It has been
applied to patients with HIV/AIDS, in studies of normal aging, and has also been employed in
population-based studies, including the follow-up to the National Health and Nutrition Examination
Survey (NHANES).

     It is one of the first self-report functional status (disability) measures, and is widely used
throughout the world. The HAQ has played a major role in many diverse areas such as prediction of
successful aging, inversion of the therapeutic pyramid in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), quantification of
NSAID gastropathy, development of risk factor models for osteoarthrosis, and examination of
mortality risks in RA. The HAQ has become a de facto mandated outcome measure for clinical trials
in rheumatoid arthritis and some other diseases. The initial paper, published in 1980 (Fries, Spitz et
al. 1980), has been the most cited article in the rheumatology literature. Reviews in 1992, 1996, and
2003 review its history, and update the literature on its reliability, validity and applicability in
multiple settings and languages (Ramey, Raynauld et al. 1992; Ramey, Fries et al. 1995; Bruce and
Fries 2003).

Purpose

    The HAQ was developed as a comprehensive measure of health outcome based on the five
patient-centered dimensions (death, disability, discomfort, drug toxicity, and dollar costs). Because
the full HAQ emanated from the rheumatology field, it sometimes has been characterized as a disease-
specific instrument rather than having been adjudicated on the basis of its structure, content, and
history of use. The HAQ has been and can be administered across diverse disciplines and in different
cultures, with properly designed adaptations that do not impact its reliability and validity and should be
considered a generic rather than a disease-specific instrument.

User Permission

      The HAQ is copyrighted for the purpose of insuring that it will be used unmodified to preserve
the validity of its results and contribute to standardization of assessment across studies. However,
it is considered to be in the public domain, with the request that users cite relevant HAQ articles(s)
in their publications (see key journal references at the end of this document). There is no charge
from Stanford for permission to use the HAQ. However, other groups which have independently
translated the HAQ may charge for use of their versions.


Formats


                                                        1
8/9/2005 - E-HAQScoreInfoNov04 REVs
    Typically, the HAQ is administered in one of two different formats, the Short or 2-page HAQ or
the Full HAQ. The Short HAQ has received the widest attention, the most frequent use, and is
commonly identified in the literature as “the HAQ.” It consists of the HAQ Disability Index (HAQ-
DI), HAQ Pain Scale, which are core items in the HAQ that have not been changed since 1983, and
the Patient Global Visual Analog Scale (VAS).

Overview

        The Full HAQ was one of the first instruments purposely designed to capture prospectively
and by protocol the longterm influence of chronic illness. In addition to disability and pain, the Full
HAQ assesses drug side effects (toxicity), dollar costs, and collects demographic and health behavior
data over a six-month period. The additional items have been used primarily for research purposes
and are tailored and modified as required to address specific hypotheses or research questions by the
Arthritis, Rheumatism, and Aging Medical Information System (ARAMIS).

        Drug use is captured and updated regularly, and their associated side effects are classified
according to severity and whether the drug was stopped. Dollar costs are divided into direct and
indirect costs. Direct cost variables include hospitalizations, surgeries, nursing home care, physician
and health worker visits, medications, laboratory tests, x-rays, aids and devices, non-traditional
treatments, assistance with personal care and housework, transportation and any additional costs
related to medical care. Utilization of these services is determined and converted into dollar
amounts. Indirect costs are those associated with productive days lost for the employed,
housewives, students and retired persons, and changes in lifestyle and activities for the patient and
family. Other items address normal daily activities, employment status, marital status, living
arrangements and health-related behaviors. Death, while obviously not a self-report outcome on the
HAQ, is a requisite part of the conceptual model of patient outcome. In ARAMIS, this is
accomplished with protocols that utilize the United States National Death Index.

Administration

    The HAQ is usually self-administered, but can also be given face-to-face in a clinical setting or
in a telephone interview by trained outcome assessors, and has been validated in all of these settings.
In ARAMIS, the questionnaire is mailed to patients every six months, who are asked to complete it
without additional instructions. The Full HAQ takes 20 to 30 minutes to complete. The HAQ-DI
and the HAQ Pain Scale can be completed in approximately five minutes. Patients usually find the
short HAQ entirely self-explanatory, and clarifications are seldom required. Follow-up phone calls
are sometimes needed to obtain missing data or to clarify ambiguous responses in the high-quality
research data applications.

The HAQ-DI

    The HAQ-DI assesses the extent of the patient’s functional ability. It has been widely used for
research purposes in both experimental and observational studies, as well as in clinical settings. The
HAQ-DI is sensitive to change and is a good predictor of future disability and costs. It has been
shown to be reliable and valid in different languages and contexts. Test-retest correlations have
ranged from 0.87 to 0.99. Correlations between interview and questionnaire format have ranged
from 0.85 to 0.95. Validity has been demonstrated in literally hundreds of studies. There is
consensus that the HAQ-DI possesses face and content validity. Correlations between questionnaire

                                                       2
8/9/2005 - E-HAQScoreInfoNov04 REVs
or interview scores and task performance have ranged from 0.71 to 0.95 demonstrating criterion
validity. The construct/convergent validity, predictive validity and sensitivity to change have also
been established in numerous observational studies and clinical trials. The HAQ-DI has also
demonstrated a high level of convergent validity based on the pattern of correlations with other
clinical and laboratory measures (Fries, Spitz et al. 1982; Ramey, Raynauld et al. 1992).

     The HAQ-DI is designed to assess the patient’s USUAL abilities using their usual equipment
over the PAST WEEK. Some patients have questioned whether their responses should reflect a
particularly good or bad time, which is out of the time frame requested, because they feel that their
response may be missing those times when their functional ability changes. However, by repeating
the HAQ at specific and regular time intervals, patterns of function can be examined. Inquiring
about these activities only when patients are feeling particularly good or bad would result in
inaccurate and biased data.

   The HAQ-DI is composed of 20 items. There are eight categories, each of which has at least two
component questions:

               1) Dressing and Grooming               5) Hygiene
               2) Arising                             6) Reach
               3) Eating                              7) Grip
               4) Walking                             8) Common Daily Activities

    For each of the categories, patients report the amount of difficulty they have in performing two
or three specific sub-category items, or also known as components, or component variables.

   There are four possible responses for each sub-category item, or component, within a category:

               0 = without ANY difficulty             2 = with MUCH difficulty
               1 = with SOME difficulty               3 = UNABLE to do

   Conventions for patient directions:

       Patients are instructed to respond idiomatically, using their own frame of reference. Thus,
       the ratings, SOME, MUCH, or USUAL, are deliberately not operationalized. For example, if
       a patient asks what “SOME” means, an appropriate response would be “Whatever you think
       ‘SOME’ means to you”.

       If a sub-category item does not apply to a patient, e.g., they don’t shampoo their hair, take
       tub baths, or reach for a heavy object above their heads, then they should leave the item(s)
       blank since the purpose is to obtain data about what they can do.

       If a patient uses aids or devices (e.g., crutches, jar openers, etc), then they should answer the
       questions based on their usual equipment or way of performing the activity. If they have no
       difficulty with a sub-category item when using aids or devices (see below), then they mark
       the “no difficulty” column.

       If a patient can open their own door but not for others, then they should respond in
       consideration of their own requirements.

                                                       3
8/9/2005 - E-HAQScoreInfoNov04 REVs
   Handling responses:

       •   If the patient’s mark is between the response columns, then the score is the closest one.
           If it’s directly between the two, use the higher one

       •   If all sub-category items are left blank, or if more than one response is given, then follow
           up with the patient is required.


   Calculating the HAQ-DI.

    The patient must have a score for at least 6 of the 8 categories. If there are less than 6 categories
   completed, a HAQ-DI cannot be computed, whether the missing categories are due to missing
   values or they do not apply to the respondent.

   1. Sum the eight category scores*

       *A category score is determined from the highest score of the sub-categories, or components,
       in that category, except when aids or devices are taken into account (see below). For
       example, if there are three sub-category items (as in the category ARISING), and the patient
       responds with a 1, 2, and 0, respectively, to the three sub-category items, the score for the
       ARISING category will be a 2.

   2. Divide the sum by the number of categories answered (range - 6-8)

       This yields a single disability index score from 0-3.

   Standard and Alternative Scoring methods. The scoring variables and scoring rules permit the
   computation of two disability indices, the Standard Disability Index, which takes into account
   the use of aids and devices, and the Alternative Disability Index, which does not. For either of
   these, a disability index cannot be computed if the patient does not have scores for at least 6 of
   the 8 categories.

   Scoring with Use of AIDS OR DEVICES and/or HELP FROM ANOTHER PERSON

       The Standard Disability Index, or commonly referred to as the HAQ-DI, takes into account
   the patient’s use of aids or devices or assistance in the scoring algorithm for a category. This is
   the preferred and traditional scoring method.

   For each of the eight disability categories there is an AIDS OR DEVICES companion variable(s)
   that is used to record the type of assistance, if any, a patient uses for his/her usual activities.




                                                       4
8/9/2005 - E-HAQScoreInfoNov04 REVs
   HAQ-DI Category                     Companion AIDS OR DEVICES item
   DRESSING & GROOMING                 Devices used for dressing (button hook, zipper pull,
                                       long handled shoe horn etc.)
   ARISING                             Built up or special chair
   EATING                              Built up or special utensils
   WALKING                             Cane walker, crutches
   HYGIENE                             Raised toilet seat, bathtub seat, bathtub bar
                                       Long handled appliances in bathroom
   REACH                               Long handled appliances for reach
   GRIP                                Jar opener (for jars previously opened.
       Devices written in the “Other” sections or notes written next to any component questions are
   considered if they would be used for any of the stated categories. Permanent adaptations of the
   person’s environment (e.g., changing faucets in the bathroom or kitchen, using Velcro closures
   on clothing) should also be counted as aids and devices.

        In the ARAMIS experience, very few patients have reported “other” items, and when they
   have, it has usually been either a duplicate of an aid or device already on the list or they have
   listed something that does not count (e.g., a wrist splint). Thus, it is usually acceptable to
   exclude the “Other” option if desired.

   Scoring AIDS OR DEVICES or help companion variables:

   1. When there are NO aids or devices or help indicated for a category, the category’s score is
      not modified.

   2. When aids or devices or help ARE indicated by the patient, the score for the category item is
      raised from a 0 or a 1 to a 2, but if the patient's highest score for that sub-category is a 3, it
      stays a 3.

        The assignment of devices to particular disability categories assumes that the devices are
   used only for their intended purposes, such that if a patient indicates that he/she uses a cane, it is
   presumed that they use the cane as an aid in walking. However, it is possible for that patient to
   use the cane as an aid in performing other activities. For example, the patient may check off the
   cane listed at the bottom of the page (or write “cane” under the “other” slot) and then write a
   little note in the margin stating that the cane is also used on a regular basis as an aid in helping
   them rise out of a chair and to rise off of the toilet. In such a case, the variables should be coded
   “1” to reflect the patient’s use of a cane in these three areas of daily functioning. If unsure
   whether the patient is using one of the devices specified above for the purpose for which it is
   designed, the patient should be called for clarification of specific uses.

   Scoring When Not Using AIDS OR DEVICES and/or HELP FROM ANOTHER PERSON




                                                       5
8/9/2005 - E-HAQScoreInfoNov04 REVs
         The Alternative Disability Index is calculated without taking into account the use of
   AIDS OR DEVICES. It is calculated by adding the scores for each of the categories and
   dividing by the number of categories answered. This yields a score between 0 to 3.0.

       There are specific circumstances where the alternative score would be preferable, such as
   when an investigation’s goal is to increase the use of aids and devices. If aids and devices were
   taken into account, scoring would be biased, and findings would indicate that the study increased
   HAQ disability scores.

HAQ Pain Scale

    The HAQ pain scale is designed to assess the presence or absence of arthritis-related pain and its
severity over the PAST WEEK. The objective is to obtain information from patients on how their
pain has USUALLY been over the past week, even though pain may be reported to vary over the
course of a day or from day to day.

    Pain is measured on a double-anchored VAS (a horizontal line where each end represents
opposite ends of a continuum) that is standardized to 15 centimeters in length; the length is
convenient for the page and for the patient. It is labeled 0=no pain at the left anchor point and
100=severe pain at the right anchor point. Patients are instructed to place a vertical mark on the line
to indicate the severity of their pain.

   Scoring Conventions. To obtain the patient score, using a metric ruler, measure the distance in
centimeters from the left anchor (at base zero) to their mark and multiply by 0.2. This converts the
number of centimeters into the appropriate score and yields a score from 0 to 3. For example, the
mark is at 8 centimeters – 8 x 0.2 = a pain score of 1.6.

   Handling responses:
   • If the patient writes in a number on the pain scale, or writes a number in addition to making a
      mark, take the number, converting it to the corresponding score. In this case, do not measure
      the mark. For example, if the patient writes “50” on the line, this should be coded as 1.5.
   •   If a patient records a percentage, multiply the percentage by 3.
   •   If a patient puts more than one mark, the midpoint is used.
   •   If a patient makes a horizontal line below the pain scale, instead of a vertical one, the
       midpoint of that line is taken. If the line starts at the beginning of the scale, measure to the
       end of the line not the middle.


   A 0-100 mm scale may be used, which requires no score computation.

   Pain severity coding translations follow below:

                         PAIN SEVERITY CODING TRANSLATIONS
                 Measurement (m) = Score   Measurement (m) = Score [contd]
                                0 = 0             7.8 - 8.2 = 1.6
                       0.1 - 0 .7 = 0.1           8.3 - 8.7 = 1.7


                                                       6
8/9/2005 - E-HAQScoreInfoNov04 REVs
                        0.8 - 1.2 = 0.2                         8.8 - 9.2 = 1.8
                        1.3 - 1.7 = 0.3                         9.3 - 9.7 = 1.9
                        1.8 - 2.2 = 0.4                        9.8 - 10.2 = 2.0
                        2.3 - 2.7 = 0.5                       10.3 - 10.7 = 2.1
                        2.8 - 3.2 = 0.6                       10.8 - 11.2 = 2.2
                        3.3 - 3.7 = 0.7                       11.3 - 11.7 = 2.3
                        3.8 - 4.2 = 0 .8                      11.8 - 12.2 = 2.4
                        4.3 - 4.7 = 0 .9                      12.3 - 12.7 = 2.5
                        4.8 - 5.2 = 1.0                       12.8 - 13.2 = 2.6
                        5.3 - 5.7 = 1.1                       13.3 - 13.7 = 2.7
                        5.8 - 6.2 = 1.2                       13.8 - 14.2 = 2.8
                        6.3 - 6.7 = 1.3                       14.3 - 14.7 = 2.9
                        6.8 - 7.2 = 1.4                       14.8 - 15.0 = 3.0

Patient Global Scale.

    The Short and Full HAQ both contain the HAQ Patient Global Scale, which is a validated
measure of quality of life. Fries and Ramey compared the HAQ Global to the Torrance quality-of-
life “feeling thermometer” and found the two scales to be highly correlated (r = -0.676; p<0.001),
indicating that both instruments were measuring similar quality of life constructs (Fries and Ramey
1997).

   The HAQ Patient Global Scale is a 15-centimeter, double-anchored horizontal VAS that starts at
0=very well to 100=very poor. It is scored similarly to the Pain Scale.



                                            Key References

Bruce, B. and J. Fries (2003). The Stanford health assessment questionnaire (HAQ): a review of its
history, issues, progress, and documentation. J Rheumatol 30(1): 167-178.
Fries, J. F. and D. R. Ramey (1997). "Arthritis specific" global health analog scales assess "generic"
health related quality-of-life in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. J Rheumatol 24(9): 1697-702.
Fries, J. F., P. Spitz, et al. (1980). Measurement of patient outcome in arthritis. Arthritis Rheum
23(2): 137-45.
Fries, J. F., P. W. Spitz, et al. (1982). The dimensions of health outcomes: the health assessment
questionnaire, disability and pain scales. J Rheumatol 9(5): 789-93.
Ramey, D., J. Fries, et al. (1995). The Health Assessment Questionnaire 1995 - status and review.
quality of life and pharmacoeconomics in clinical trials. S. B. Philadelphia, Lippincott-Raven
Publishers: 227-237.
Ramey, D. R., J. P. Raynauld, et al. (1992). The health assessment questionnaire 1992: status and
review" Arthritis Care Res 5(3): 119-29.




                                                       7
8/9/2005 - E-HAQScoreInfoNov04 REVs
