                             ADULT PREVENTIVE HEALTH SCREENING GUIDELINES

These guidelines for adult health screening and preventive services are derived from the most recent
United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) and other nationally recognized standards of
practice from organizations such as American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP), American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), American Cancer Society (ACS), American
College of Physicians (ACP), and others. Age, sex and risk factor specific USPSTF recommendations
can be found using the ePSS app found on the USPSTF website.

Required interventions are italicized and considered to be an integral component of primary care.
Consequently, Partnership HealthPlan of California (Partnership) audits the compliance of each PCP
performing these services at least once every three years during the Medical Record Review (MRR).
*The USPSTF recommends clinicians discuss these preventive services with eligible patients and offer them as a priority. All
these services have received an “A” (strongly recommended) or a “B” (recommended) grade from the Task Force.



 PREVENTIVE CARE            FREQUENCY/DETAILS
                            A meta-analysis in the Jan. 22, 2019 issue of JAMA concluded that there was no net
                            benefit for use of aspirin for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease.
                            The USPSTF (April 2022) recommends for adults aged 40 to 59 years with a 10% or
                            greater 10-year cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk, the decision to initiate low-dose
                            aspirin for the primary prevention of CVD should be an individual one. Evidence
 Aspirin for the            indicates that the net benefit of aspirin use in this group is small. Persons who are not
 Primary Prevention of      at increased risk for bleeding and are willing to take low-dose aspirin daily are more
 Cardiovascular             likely to benefit. (Grade C)
 Events *
                            For adults 60 years or older, the USPSTF recommends against initiating low-dose
                            aspirin use for the primary prevention of CVD. (Grade D)
                            Cardiovascular risk can be calculated by the heart risk calculator found at PREVENT
                            Online Calculator – Professional Heart Daily / American Heart Association or the
                            ASCVD Risk Calculator Plus for mobile devices.

                            Age 65+ at the time of the periodic health examination. For individuals likely to take
                            action based on abnormal testing results, consider a three-question screening: 1. Do
                            you have difficulty with your hearing? 2. How bothered are you by your hearing loss?
 Assessment for             3. How motivated are you to do something about it? (Affirmative responses to all
 Hearing Impairment         three warrants referral for diagnostic evaluation and possible treatment.) Reference:
                            JAMA March 23/30, 2021, pp. 1162-1163.
                            The USPSTF concludes current evidence is insufficient re: screening for hearing loss
                            in older adults.

                            Upon initial entry into PCP practice, then at least every two years. If elevated, the
 High Blood Pressure
                            USPSTF (April 2021) recommends obtaining measurements outside of the clinical
 Screening *
                            setting for diagnostic confirmation before starting treatment, when feasible.

                            The USPSTF (September 2023) recommends screening for hypertensive disorders in
 Hypertensive
                            pregnant persons with blood pressure measurements at each prenatal visit. This
 Disorders of
                            includes all pregnant persons without a known diagnosis of a hypertensive disorder
 Pregnancy Screening
                            of pregnancy or chronic hypertension. (Grade B)




MGQP1005 – Attachment A rev. 03/11/26                                                                             Page 1 of 8
                             ADULT PREVENTIVE HEALTH SCREENING GUIDELINES

 PREVENTIVE CARE             FREQUENCY/DETAILS
                             The USPSTF (May 2021) recommends performing screening for colorectal cancer in
                             adults aged 50 to 75 (Grade A) and ages 45 to 49. (Grade B)
                             • Modalities include Fecal Occult Blood Test (FOBT) or Fecal Immunochemical
                               Test (FIT) annually, OR colonoscopy every 10 years; OR flexible sigmoidoscopy
                               every five years OR FIT_DNA test every three years. (See USPSTF for other
 Colorectal Cancer             variations.) CT colonoscopy is technically difficult and Partnership requires a
 Screening *                   Treatment Authorization Request (TAR).
                             • Recommendations for adults aged 50 to 75 (Grade A) differ from those aged 76
                               to 85. For adults aged 76 to 85 years, the decision to screen for colorectal cancer
                               is an individual one, taking into account patient’s overall health and prior
                               screening for colorectal cancer are more likely to benefit.
                             • The USPSTF does not comment on screening for colorectal cancer in adults
                               older than 85 years of age.

                             • Initial entry into PCP practice.
 Height & Weight             • Age 18 to 64: weight at least every two years.
                             • Age 65+: weight at least annually.

                             The USPSTF (June 2018 – currently under review) recommends that each
                             adolescent and adult ages 15 to 65 without risk factors be tested for HIV once in
                             their lifetime. In addition, all individuals at increased risk for HIV, regardless of age,
                             should be tested every year. Pregnant persons should be tested with each
                             pregnancy, including those presenting in labor oat at delivery whose HIV status is
 HIV Screening and           unknown.
 Pre-exposure
                             The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends prenatal
 Prophylaxis to Prevent
                             testing for syphilis and HIV during a pregnant person’s first prenatal visit and repeat
 Acquisition of HIV *
                             testing for “high-risk” pregnant persons during the third trimester (preferably 28-32
                             weeks). (CDC, April 19, 2022)
                             The USPSTF (August 2023) also recommends that clinicians prescribe preexposure
                             prophylaxis using effective antiretroviral therapy to persons who are at increased
                             risk of HIV acquisition to decrease the risk of acquiring HIV.

                             The USPSTF (March 2020) recommends a one-time screening for average risk
                             adults ages 18 to 79. In addition, adults at increased risk of contracting Hepatitis C
 Hepatitis C Screening*      (e.g., those using injectable drugs of abuse), should be screened periodically
                             (ungraded recommendation). There is limited evidence to determine how often to
                             screen persons at increased risk.

                             The USPSTF (March 2021) recommends annual screening for lung cancer with low-
                             dose computed tomography (LCDT; CPT code 71211) in adults ages 50 to 80 years
 Lung Cancer                 who have a 20+ pack-year smoking history and IN ADDITION currently smoke or
 Screening *                 have quit within the past 15 years or develop a health problem that substantially
                             limits life expectancy or the ability or willingness to have curative lung surgery.
                             (Grade B) Full-dose CT scans are not approved for screening.

                             The USPST (September 2022) recommends screening persons at increased risk for
 Syphilis Infection,
                             syphilis. (Grade A) At highest risk are men who have sex with men and persons
 Screening – Non-
                             living with HIV. Other risk factors ae history of incarceration, history of commercial
 pregnant and
                             sex work, male younger than 29 years old, and (in Partnership regions) current
 Pregnant Persons *
                             homelessness and current use of methamphetamines.




MGQP1005 – Attachment A rev. 03/11/26                                                                           Page 2 of 8
                             ADULT PREVENTIVE HEALTH SCREENING GUIDELINES

                             The USPSTF (September 2018) recommends early screening for syphilis infection
                             in all pregnant persons. Those presenting in labor or at delivery whose syphilis
                             status is unknown should be tested at that time. (Grade A)
                             The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends prenatal
                             testing for syphilis and HIV during a pregnant person’s first prenatal visit and repeat
                             testing for “high-risk” pregnant persons during the third trimester (preferably 28-32
                             weeks). (CDC April 19, 2022)
                             Screen and confirm - Options for testing include traditional screening algorithm:
                             Screen with an initial nontreponemal test (e.g., Venereal Disease Research
                             Laboratory (VDRL) or rapid plasma regain [RPR] test). If positive, confirm with a
                             treponemal antibody detection test (e.g., T pallidum particle automated treponemal
                             test (e.g., enzyme-linked or chemiluminescence immunoassay). If positive, confirm
                             with a nontreponemal test.

                             The USPSTF (May 2023) recommends screening for latent tuberculosis infection
 Latent Tuberculosis         (LTBI) in populations at increased risk. (Grade B) (See MPQG1004 Attachment B –
 Infection (LTBI)            TB Screening Overview for more specifics.) This recommendation meets the
 Screening                   requirements of California’s new Tuberculosis screening law, Assembly Bill 2132,
                             which was signed into law Sept. 29, 2024, and took effect Jan. 1, 2025.

                             AAFP and USPSTF (May 2022) find insufficient evidence for or against. (Grade I)
                             Medicare recommends screening for those in these high-risk categories: 1. Persons
 Glaucoma Screening
                             with diabetes, 2. Family history of glaucoma, 3. African American and age 50 or
                             older, or 4. Hispanic and age 65 or older.

                             The USPSTF recommendations covering lipid screening in adults are archived.
 Hyperlipidemia              UpToDate® (“Screening for lipid disorders in adults” Aug. 2, 2021) recommends
 Screening (needed for       obtaining a fasting or non-fasting lipid profile when an adult enters care at a new
 full cardiovascular risk    practice to screen for familial hypercholesterolemia and for cardiovascular risk
 factor evaluation)          assessment, with rescreening as part of a cardiovascular risk analysis every five
                             years. Earlier rescreening may be indicated depending on patient-specific factors.

                             The USPSTF (August 2022) recommends prescribing statins for the primary
                             prevention of CVD for adults ages 40 to 75 years with one or more CVD risk factors
                             (i.e., dyslipidemia, diabetes, hypertension or smoking), AND a 10-year
 Statin Use for Primary      cardiovascular risk of >10% (Grade B) or 7.5% to <10%. (Grade C)
 Prevention of
                             Current evidence is insufficient to assess benefits versus harms in adults > 75 years
 Cardiovascular
                             of age. (Grade I)
 Disease (CVD)
                             Cardiovascular risk can be calculated by the heart risk calculator found at
                             PREVENT Online Calculator – Professional Heart Daily / American Heart
                             Association or the ASCVD Risk Calculator Plus for mobile devices.

                             Based on age and risk factors. For updated schedule, reference the CDC
 Vaccination
                             guidelines. https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/schedules/

                             The USPSTF (August 2021) recommends screening all adults ages 35 to 70 years
                             who are overweight or obese. (Grade B) The screening interval is uncertain, but
 Diabetes Mellitus in        every three years “may be reasonable.”
 Adults, Screening for       2023 Standards of the American Diabetes Association:
 Type 2 and
 Prediabetes *               1. Testing for prediabetes and DM2 in asymptomatic people should be considered
                                in any overweight adult (BMI >25)1 with one or more risk factors. Risk factors
                                include a first-degree relative with diabetes, high-risk race/ethnicity (e.g., African
                                American, Latino, Native American, Asian American, Pacific Islander), history of


MGQP1005 – Attachment A rev. 03/11/26                                                                         Page 3 of 8
                             ADULT PREVENTIVE HEALTH SCREENING GUIDELINES

                                CVD, hypertension, HDL cholesterol level < 35 mg/dL (0.90 mmol/L) and
                                triglyceride level > 250 mg/dL (2.82 mmol/L), polycystic ovary syndrome, physical
                                inactivity, and/or other clinical conditions associated with insulin resistance (e.g.,
                                severe obesity, acanthosis nigricans).
                             2. Screen all adults beginning at age 35 years.
                             3. If test results are normal, screen every three years.
                             4. Acceptable screening tests include fasting plasma glucose, 2-h plasma glucose
                                during a 75-g GTT, and HgbA1c.
                             5. Persons with HIV should be screened using a fasting glucose test before starting
                                antiretroviral therapy, when switching therapies, and 3-6 months after starting
                                therapy, and then annually, if screening results are normal.
                             1 The ADA suggests different BMI parameters for Asian Americans; however,

                             Partnership does not endorse this differentiation.

                             The USPSTF (November 2023) concludes that the current evidence is insufficient to
                             assess the balance of benefits and harms of routine screening performed by primary
                             care clinicians for oral health conditions, including dental caries or periodontal-
                             related disease, in adults.
 Dental Disease and          The AAFP recognizes the PCP may act as a first line of defense by promoting good
 referral to dental          oral health during patient visits. Their recommendation is to assess for and promote
 provider                    oral health. Ask about brushing and flossing, use of tobacco and other smoked
                             products, consumption of sugary drinks and advocating and assisting with
                             identifying a primary dental office.
                             Frequency includes entry into PCP practice, then yearly or as indicated by the PCP
                             and/or dental care provider.

                             The USPSTF (November 2018 currently under review) recommends screening for
                             unhealthy alcohol use in primary care settings in adults 18 years and older, including
                             pregnant persons. Screen all adults annually; if present, offer behavioral
                             interventions to reduce unhealth alcohol use. (Grade B)
 Alcohol and Drug
 Misuse and Behavioral       The USPSTF (June 2020) recommends asking about unhealthy drug use in adults
 Counseling                  aged 18 years or older. When screening is positive, offer or refer for appropriate
 Interventions *             treatment.
                             California Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) All Plan Letter (APL) 21-014
                             – Alcohol and Drug Screening, Assessment, Brief Intervention and Referral to
                             Treatment – Oct. 11, 2021)

                             The USPSTF (July 2022 - currently under review) recommends for adults without
                             known CVD risk factors individualizing the decision to offer to refer to behavioral
                             counseling interventions to promote a healthy diet and physical activity.
                             The USPSTF (November 2020 – currently under review) recommends offering or
                             referring adults with one of the following:
 Diet, Behavioral
 Counseling in Primary       1. Hypertension
 Care to Promote a           2. Dyslipidemia
 Healthy Lifestyle –         3. Mixed multiple risk factors such as metabolic syndrome or a > 7.5% estimated
 Recommendations for            10-year CVD risk to intensive behavioral/counseling interventions to promote a
 adults with and without        healthy diet and physical activity for CVD prevention.
 known CVD risks *
                             This recommendation no longer includes adults with other known modifiable CVD
                             risk factors such as abnormal blood glucose levels, obesity, and smoking, as these
                             populations are covered by other USPSTF recommendations.
                             Individuals with a diagnosis of prediabetes should be referred to participate in a
                             Diabetes Prevention Program, if available.

MGQP1005 – Attachment A rev. 03/11/26                                                                        Page 4 of 8
                             ADULT PREVENTIVE HEALTH SCREENING GUIDELINES


                             The USPSTF (June 2023) recommends screening for depression on the general
                             adult population, including pregnant persons and post-partum persons. (Grade B)
                             Screening should be implemented with adequate systems in place to ensure
                             accurate diagnoses, effective treatment, and appropriate follow up. There is little
                             evidence regarding optimal timing for screening.
                             The USPSTF (October 2022) concludes that the current evidence is insufficient to
 Screening for               assess the balance of benefits and harms of screening for suicide risk in the adult
 Depression and              population, including pregnant and post-partum persons, as well as older adults.
 Suicide Risks * in          (Grade I)
 Adults and Perinatal        The USPSTF (February 2019) also recommends that pregnant persons at risk of
 Depression                  depression should be referred for counseling even if not currently depressed.
                             (Grade B)
                             Risk factors include low socio-economic status. Consequently, all pregnant
                             Partnership members should be referred for at least one counseling session. The
                             Partnership Healthplan Perinatal Services (PHPS) Program includes provision of
                             counseling services. If a PHPS program is available, all eligible Partnership
                             members should be referred to a PHPS program for counseling and other services.
 BEHAVIORAL
                             DETAILS
 CONDITIONS
                             The USPSTF (June 2023) recommends screening for anxiety disorders in adults 64
                             years or younger, including pregnant and post-partum persons who have no
                             recognized signs of symptoms of anxiety. (Grade B)
 Anxiety *
                             The USPSTF (June 2023) concludes that the current evidence is insufficient to
                             assess the balance of benefits and harms of screening for anxiety disorders in older
                             adults 65 years or older. (Grade I)

                             The AAFP recommends screening all adults for obesity (using BMI >30).. The
                             current USPSTF (September 2018) recommendation is that clinicians should offer or
                             refer patients with a BMI of 30 or more to intensive, multicomponent behavioral
                             interventions. (Grade B)
 Obesity *




                             For all adults who are not pregnant, the USPSTF (January 2021) recommends that
                             clinicians ask all adults about tobacco use, advise them to stop using tobacco, and
 Tobacco Use and             provide behavioral interventions and USDA- (FDA-) approved pharmacotherapy for
 Tobacco Caused              cessation. (Grade A)
 Disease Counseling,
 including for Pregnant      For all pregnant persons, the USPSTF recommends that clinicians ask all pregnant
 Persons *                   persons about tobacco use, advise them to stop using tobacco, and provide
                             behavioral interventions for cessation to pregnant persons who use tobacco. (Grade
                             A)

                             Screen all reproductive aged persons at risk for unintended pregnancy (and males
                             who may cause unintended pregnancy); offer counseling and access to
 Unintended                  contraceptives, including emergency contraception. (ACOG 2019)
 Pregnancy *                 Recommended screening question with a modified “One Key Question” method: “Do
                             you, or any of your sensual or sexual partners, want to become pregnant in the
                             coming year?” (AAFP 2021)


MGQP1005 – Attachment A rev. 03/11/26                                                                      Page 5 of 8
                             ADULT PREVENTIVE HEALTH SCREENING GUIDELINES

 OTHER
                             DETAILS
 SCREENINGS
                             The USPSTF (December 2019) recommends one-time screening for abdominal
 Abdominal Aortic
                             aortic aneurysm by ultrasound in persons aged 65 to 75 who have ever smoked
 Aneurysm Screening*
                             (>100 cigarettes smoked) and were assigned as male at birth. (Grade B)

                             USPSTF recommendations (December 2023 – currently under review):

 Prostate Cancer             • Asymptomatic average risk persons with a prostate aged 55 to 69 years should
 Screening (Prostate           have shared decision making with their clinician about the pros and cons of
 Specific Antigen blood        screening. (Grade C)
 test) *                     • Persons with a prostate aged 70 and older should not be screened. (Grade D)
                             • Persons with a prostate with prostate symptoms may have a PSA as part of their
                               diagnostic evaluation.

                             Adapted from USPSTF (June 2025) recommendations: Screen all patients of
                             childbearing age for intimate partner violence when a routine health maintenance
 Screening for Intimate      exam is performed, including those who are pregnant and postpartum. (Grade B)
 Partner Violence *          Providers should refer patients who screen positive to ongoing support services.



                             The USPSTF (April 2024) recommends biennial mammography for persons aged 40
                             to 74 years with breasts and assigned as female at birth who are asymptomatic.
                             (Grade B)
                             Transgender and Gender Diverse persons:
 Breast Cancer
                             The “Standards of Care for the Health of Transgender and Gender Diverse People,
 Screening by
                             Version 8” from the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH)
 Mammography *
                             recommends “… health care professionals follow local breast cancer screening
                             guidelines developed for cisgender women in their care of transgender and gender
                             diverse people who have received estrogens, taking into consideration length of
                             time of hormone use, dosing, current age, and the age at which hormones were
                             initiated.” Shared decision making is recommended.

                             The USPSTF (September 2019) recommends clinicians offer to prescribe risk
                             reducing medications, such as tamoxifen, raloxifene or aromatase inhibitors, to
 Breast Cancer,              persons at high risk for breast cancer and at low risk for adverse effects of
 Chemoprevention *           chemoprevention. (Grade B)
                             A breast cancer risk assessment toll is available at www.cancer.gov/bcrisktool

 Breast and Ovarian          Adapted* the USPSTF (August 2019) recommends assessment with an appropriate
 Cancer Susceptibility,      brief family risk assessment tool for persons at high risk of breast and ovarian
 Genetic Risk                cancer.
 Assessment and              Persons with a positive result should be offered genetic counseling and, if indicated
 BRCA Mutation               after counseling, genetic testing. (Grade B) See MCUP3131 – Genetic Testing policy
 Testing *                   for details.
 Breastfeeding,
                             The USPSTF (April 2025) recommends interventions or referrals during pregnancy
 Behavioral
                             and after birth to promote and support breastfeeding. (Grade B)
 Interventions to
 Promote *
                             USPSTF recommendations (December 2024 – currently under review)
 Cervical Cancer
 Screening *                 • Persons with a cervix aged 21 to 29 should have cervical cytology screening
                               alone every three years. Persons with a cervix aged 30 to 65 may have cervical

MGQP1005 – Attachment A rev. 03/11/26                                                                    Page 6 of 8
                             ADULT PREVENTIVE HEALTH SCREENING GUIDELINES

                                 cytology screening every three years, every 5 years with high-risk human
                                 papillomavirus (hrHPV) testing alone, or may have high-risk HPV testing every
                                 five years. (Grade A)
                             •   Persons with a cervix under aged 21 should not be screened. (Grade D)
                             •   Persons with a cervix over age 65 should only be screened if they have never
                                 been previously screened, or if one of their last three screenings had any type of
                                 cervical atypia. (Grade D)
                             •   Routine cervical cytology testing should be discontinued (regardless of age) in
                                 persons with a history of a total hysterectomy (removal of the cervix along with
                                 the uterus) for noncancerous reasons, as long as they have no history of high-
                                 grade CIN. (Grade D)
                             •   The USPSTF recommends against screening for cervical cancer in women who
                                 have had a hysterectomy with removal of the cervix and do not have a history of
                                 a high-grade precancerous lesion (ie, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia [CIN]
                                 grade 2 or 3) or cervical cancer. (Grade D)
                             •   The USPSTF recommends against screening for cervical cancer in women older
                                 than 65 years who have had adequate prior screening and are not otherwise at
                                 high risk for cervical cancer. (Grade D)
                             •   Note: although the American Cancer Society changed its recommendations in
                                 2020 to recommend later initiation of screening, less frequent screening, and use
                                 of HPC screening only under age 30, Partnership continues to recommend
                                 following the recommendations of USPSTF / ACOG.
                             Additional Notes: The American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology
                             (ASCCP) recommends the use of vaginal swab collection for high-risk HPV testing
                             in cervical cancer (April 2025), American Cancer Society (December 2025)
                             •    Clinician-collected specimens are preferred and self-collected vaginal
                                  specimens are acceptable
                             •    Vaginal swab collection is recommended for primary HPV screening in
                                  asymptomatic, average-risk people with a cervix ages 25-65 years
                             •    Following a negative HPV test, self-collected vaginal specimens require repeat
                                  testing in 3 years, while clinician-collected vaginal specimens require repeat
                                  testing in 5 years
                             •    Self-collected vaginal specimens resulting in HPV positive results require a
                                  follow-up visit for a clinician-collected cervical specimen
                             •    Self-collection is not recommended for high-risk individuals, including those with
                                  immunosuppression
                             •    Use only FDA-approved collection devices and HPV assays

                             USPSTF recommendations (September 2021):
                             Annual screening recommended for sexually active women 24 years or younger and
                             for women aged 25 years or older at increased risk for infection. Risks include
                             previous or current STI, a sex partner with a STI, inconsistent condom use when
                             indicated, a history of exchanging sex for money or drugs, and a history of
 Chlamydia and
                             incarceration. (Grade B)
 Gonorrhea Screening
 *                           Transgender and gender-diverse persons – Gonorrhea and chlamydia screening
                             recommendations should be adapted based on anatomy (i.e., screening
                             recommendations for cisgender females should be extended to all transgender
                             males and gender-diverse persons with a cervix.) Screening at the pharyngeal and
                             rectal site for gonorrhea and chlamydia should be considered based on reported
                             sexual behaviors and exposure. (UpToDate®, March 2024)




MGQP1005 – Attachment A rev. 03/11/26                                                                       Page 7 of 8
                             ADULT PREVENTIVE HEALTH SCREENING GUIDELINES


                             USPSTF recommendation (January 2025): Screen persons assigned as female at
                             birth age 65 and older with bone measurement testing to prevent osteoporotic
                             fractures. (Grade B)
                             For post-menopausal persons assigned as female at birth younger than 65 years,
                             apply a formal clinical risk assessment tool such as the FRAX tool, found at
 Osteoporosis in             https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/FRAX/tool.aspx?country=9 to determine the appropriate
 Postmenopausal              need for bone measurement testing. (Grade B)
 Persons Assigned as
                             The USPSTF does not speak to the frequency of interval between testing.
 Female at Birth
 Screening *                 ACOG (September 2021) recommends repeat testing no earlier than two years after
                             initial screening in those with a borderline result of a change in risk factors. A one-
                             year follow-up test is recommended for patients on chronic glucocorticoid treatment.
                             WPATH’s “Standards of Care for the Health of Transgender and Gender Diverse
                             People, Version 8” provides osteoporosis screening recommendations based on
                             surgical and hormonal histories of transgender and gender diverse individuals.

                             The USPSTF (April 2018 – currently under review) recommends against daily
 Vitamin D, Calcium or       supplementals with 400 IU or les of Vitamin D and 1000 mg or les of Calcium for the
 Combined                    primary prevention of fractures in postmenopausal persons assigned as female at
 Supplementation for         birth. (Grade D)
 the Primary
                             The USPSTF (April 2018) finds inconclusive evidence that the benefits outweigh the
 Prevention of
                             risks for daily Calcium doses greater than 1000 mg of Vitamin D supplementation
 Fractures in
                             greater than 400 IU to prevent fractures. (Grade I)
 Postmenopausal
 Persons Assigned as         WPATH’s “Standards of Care for the Health of Transgender and Gender Diverse
 Female at Birth             People, Version 8” provides osteoporosis prevention recommendations based on
                             surgical and hormonal histories of transgender and gender diverse individuals.


Resources: United States Preventive Services Task Force recommendations, American Academy of Family
Physicians (AAFP), American College of Obstetricians & Gynecologists (ACOG), American College of
Physicians (ACP), UpToDate®, the American Diabetes Association, “Standards of Care for the Health of
Transgender and Gender Diverse People, Version 8,” Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Distribution: Partnership Provider Manual, Department Heads



* Language updated to be non-gender specific.




MGQP1005 – Attachment A rev. 03/11/26                                                                       Page 8 of 8
