     Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS-v1.1) Symptom Checklist
                            Instructions
The questions on the back page are designed to stimulate dialogue between you and your patients and to help
confirm if they may be suffering from the symptoms of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

Description: The Symptom Checklist is an instrument consisting of the eighteen DSM-IV-TR criteria.
Six of the eighteen questions were found to be the most predictive of symptoms consistent with
ADHD. These six questions are the basis for the ASRS v1.1 Screener and are also Part A of the
Symptom Checklist. Part B of the Symptom Checklist contains the remaining twelve questions.

Instructions:

    Symptoms

    1. Ask the patient to complete both Part A and Part B of the Symptom Checklist by marking an X
       in the box that most closely represents the frequency of occurrence of each of the symptoms.


    2. Score Part A. If four or more marks appear in the darkly shaded boxes within Part A then the
       patient has symptoms highly consistent with ADHD in adults and further investigation is
       warranted.


    3. The frequency scores on Part B provide additional cues and can serve as further probes into the
       patient’s symptoms. Pay particular attention to marks appearing in the dark shaded boxes. The
       frequency-based response is more sensitive with certain questions. No total score or diagnostic
       likelihood is utilized for the twelve questions. It has been found that the six questions in Part A
       are the most predictive of the disorder and are best for use as a screening instrument.

    Impairments

    1. Review the entire Symptom Checklist with your patients and evaluate the level of impairment
       associated with the symptom.


    2. Consider work/school, social and family settings.


    3. Symptom frequency is often associated with symptom severity, therefore the Symptom
       Checklist may also aid in the assessment of impairments. If your patients have frequent
       symptoms, you may want to ask them to describe how these problems have affected the ability
       to work, take care of things at home, or get along with other people such as their
       spouse/significant other.

    History

    1. Assess the presence of these symptoms or similar symptoms in childhood. Adults who have
       ADHD need not have been formally diagnosed in childhood. In evaluating a patient’s history,
       look for evidence of early-appearing and long-standing problems with attention or self-control.
       Some significant symptoms should have been present in childhood, but full symptomology is not
       necessary.
                          Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS-v1.1) Symptom Checklist
Patient Name                                                                          Today’s Date
 Please answer the questions below, rating yourself on each of the criteria shown using the


                                                                                                                 Sometimes             Very Often
 scale on the right side of the page. As you answer each question, place an X in the box that
 best describes how you have felt and conducted yourself over the past 6 months. Please give
 this completed checklist to your healthcare professional to discuss during today’s             Never   Rarely               Often
 appointment.
1. How often do you have trouble wrapping up the final details of a project,
   once the challenging parts have been done?

2. How often do you have difficulty getting things in order when you have to do
   a task that requires organization?
3. How often do you have problems remembering appointments or obligations?


4. When you have a task that requires a lot of thought, how often do you avoid
   or delay getting started?

5. How often do you fidget or squirm with your hands or feet when you have
   to sit down for a long time?
6. How often do you feel overly active and compelled to do things, like you
   were driven by a motor?
                                                                                                                                     Part A
7. How often do you make careless mistakes when you have to work on a boring or
   difficult project?

 8. How often do you have difficulty keeping your attention when you are doing boring
    or repetitive work?

 9. How often do you have difficulty concentrating on what people say to you,
    even when they are speaking to you directly?
10. How often do you misplace or have difficulty finding things at home or at work?


11. How often are you distracted by activity or noise around you?


12. How often do you leave your seat in meetings or other situations in which
    you are expected to remain seated?

13. How often do you feel restless or fidgety?


14. How often do you have difficulty unwinding and relaxing when you have time
    to yourself?

15. How often do you find yourself talking too much when you are in social situations?

16. When you’re in a conversation, how often do you find yourself finishing
    the sentences of the people you are talking to, before they can finish
    them themselves?
17. How often do you have difficulty waiting your turn in situations when
    turn taking is required?

18. How often do you interrupt others when they are busy?


                                                                                                                                     Part B
                  The Value of Screening for Adults With ADHD


Research suggests that the symptoms of ADHD can persist into adulthood, having a significant
impact on the relationships, careers, and even the personal safety of your patients who may
suffer from it.1-4 Because this disorder is often misunderstood, many people who have it do not
receive appropriate treatment and, as a result, may never reach their full potential. Part of the
problem is that it can be difficult to diagnose, particularly in adults.

The Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS-v1.1) Symptom Checklist was developed
in conjunction with the World Health Organization (WHO), and the Workgroup on Adult
ADHD that included the following team of psychiatrists and researchers:

     •     Lenard Adler, MD
           Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Neurology
           New York University Medical School

     •     Ronald C. Kessler, PhD
           Professor, Department of Health Care Policy
           Harvard Medical School

     •     Thomas Spencer, MD
           Associate Professor of Psychiatry
           Harvard Medical School

As a healthcare professional, you can use the ASRS v1.1 as a tool to help screen for ADHD in
adult patients. Insights gained through this screening may suggest the need for a more in-depth
clinician interview. The questions in the ASRS v1.1 are consistent with DSM-IV criteria and
address the manifestations of ADHD symptoms in adults. Content of the questionnaire also
reflects the importance that DSM-IV places on symptoms, impairments, and history for a correct
diagnosis.4

The checklist takes about 5 minutes to complete and can provide information that is critical
to supplement the diagnostic process.




References:
     1.   Schweitzer JB, et al. Med Clin North Am. 2001;85(3):10-11, 757-777.
     2.   Barkley RA. Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder: A Handbook for Diagnosis and Treatment. 2nd ed. 1998.
     3.   Biederman J, et al. Am J Psychiatry.1993;150:1792-1798.
     4.   American Psychiatric Association: Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, Text Revision.
          Washington, DC, American Psychiatric Association. 2000: 85-93.
