                 Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS-v1.1) Symptom Checklist
Patient Name                                                                                              Today’s Date

Instructions                                                                                               1       2       3     4     5
Please answer the questions below, rating yourself on a scale of 1 through 5 on each of the criteria as
shown to the right. As you answer each question in a way that best describes how you have felt and
conducted yourself in the past 6 months. Please give this completed checklist to your healthcare                           Sometime

                                                                                                                                      Always
                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                  Rarely
professional to discuss during your appointment.
                                                                                                          Never            Often
1. How often do you have trouble wrapping up the final details of a project, once the challenging
parts have been done?
2. How often do you have difficulty getting things in order when you have to do a task that requires
organization?
3. How often do you have problems remembering appointments or obligations?
4. When you have a task that requires a lot of thought, how often do you avoid or delay getting
started?
5. How often do you fidget or squirm with your hands or feet when you have to sit down for a long
time?
6. How often do you feel overly active and compelled to do things, like you were driven by a motor?

7. How often do you make careless mistakes when you have to work on a boring or difficult project?
8. How often do you have difficulty keeping your attention when you are doing boring or repetitive
work?
9. How often do you have difficulty concentrating on what people say to you, even when they are
speaking to you directly?
10. How often do you misplace or have difficulty finding things at home or at work?

11. How often are you distracted by activity or noise around you?
12. How often do you leave your seat in meetings or other situations in which you are expected to
remain seated?
13. How often do you feel restless or fidgety?

14. How often do you have difficulty unwinding and relaxing when you have time to yourself?

15. How often do you find yourself talking to much when you are in social situations?
16. When you are in a conversation, how often do you find yourself finishing the sentences of the
people you are talking to, before they can finish them themselves?
17. How often do you have difficulty waiting your turn in situations when turn taking is required?

18. How often do you interrupt others when they are busy?

                                                          Total Score: Inattention, Subscale A

                                                        Total Score: Hyperactivity, Subscale B
                Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS-v1.1) Symptom Checklist
Overview
The Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS-v1.1) may be used as a tool to help screen for attention-
deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adult patients. The checklist takes about 5 minutes to complete. The
eighteen questions in the ASRS-v1.1 are consistent with DSM-IV-TR criteria and address the manifestations of
ADHD symptoms in adults.

Instructions
Ask the patient to complete the symptom checklist, marking a number between 1 and 5 of the frequency
he/she experiences symptoms compatible to the question. Ask the patient to answer each question in a way
that best describes how he/she has felt and conducted him/herself in the past 6 months.

Review the checklist with your patient, evaluating the level of impairment associated with each symptom.
Consider the patient’s work/school, social, and family settings. Symptom frequency is often associated with
symptom severity; therefore, the symptom checklist may also aid in the assessment of impairments. If your
patient has frequent symptoms, you may want to ask him/her to describe how these problems have affected
the ability to work, take care of things at home, or get along with other people, such as a significant other.

Be sure to assess the presence of these symptoms in childhood. Adults who have ADHD need not have been
formally diagnosed in childhood. In evaluating a patient’s history, look for evidence of early-appearing and
long-standing problems with attention or self-control. Some significant symptoms should have been present in
childhood, but full symptomology is not necessary.

Scoring
The ASRS-v1.1 has two subscales: Inattention (subscale A) and Hyperactivity (subscale B). Questions related to
subscale A (1-4 and 7-12) are tinted with a yellow background, while questions related to subscale B (5-6 and
13-18) are tinted in a blue background. Tally each subscale and include the final total in the bolded boxes.



Copyright
© World Health Organization 2003

Terms of Use
The Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS-v1.1) Symptom Checklist was developed in conjunction with the
World Health Organization (WHO), and the Workgroup on Adult ADHD. The ASRS v1.1 can be used for free and
does not require any formal permission or approval.

Reference
Kessler, R. C. , Adler, L., Ames, M., Demler, O., Faraone, S., Hiripi, E., Howes, M. J. , Jin, R., Scnik, K., Spencer, T.,
Ustun, T. B., & Walters, E. E. (2005). The World Health Organization adult ADHD self-report scale (ASRS).
Psychological Medicine, 35(2), 245-256.
