McGill Pain Questionnaire
Original Citation – Melzack R. The McGill Pain Questionnaire: major properties and scoring methods. Pain. 1975
Sep;1(3):277-99. View in PubMed

Contact Information – No information found.

Price & Availability – Published in original citation. Alternatively, complete Internet search to find PDF downloads. Original
and short form available.

Brief Description of Instrument – Measurement of subjective pain experience using 3 categories of word descriptors:
sensory, affective and evaluative. Also contains intensity scale and other items to describe pain. Designed to provide a
quantitative measure of pain.

Administration time – 5 - 20 minutes.

Scale Format – Checklist, multiple-choice, open-ended questions.

Administration Technique – Self-administered with research staff support. Instructions to be read out loud to participants
by research staff to make sure that they are fully understood and that participants understand the meaning of the adjective
list words.

Scoring and Interpretation – 3 measures can be derived: 1) pain rating index (PRI), has two components, subjective (S)
and rank value (R), based on numerical values assigned to each word descriptor, 2) number of words chosen (NWC) and 3)
present pain intensity (PPI) based on a 1-5 intensity scale (1-mild, 2-discomforting, 3-distressing, 4-horrible, 5-excruciating).
See original citation for scoring details.

Factors and Norms – Mean scores reported by pain syndrome, please see citation for details.

Construct Validity – Correlation between PRI(S) and PRI(R), >0.9 for all 4 categories. NWC correlates highly with PRI(S)
r=0.97 and PRI(R) r=0.89. PPI correlated significantly (p<0.01) with total NWC.

Responsive to Change Over Time – Sensitive to detect differences among different methods to relieve pain, larger
correlations demonstrated between PPI and PRI(R), p<0.001. Please see original citation for details.

Content & Face Validity – Words tested in previous study - classified and intensity rated by subjects.

Strengths – Valid questionnaire, widely used.

Notes for Consideration – Various translations available, conduct Internet or Medline search.

Published APN Studies using instrument –- McCorkle R, Benoliel JQ, Donaldson G, Georgiadou F, Moinpour C, Goodell
B. A randomized clinical trial of home nursing care for lung cancer patients. Cancer 1989;64:199-206. View in PubMed

Related Methods Articles (Not Reviewed) – Melzack R. The short-form McGill Pain Questionnaire. Pain. 1987
Aug;30(2):191-7.
Melzack R, Katz J, Jeans ME. The role of compensation in chronic pain: analysis using a new method of scoring the McGill
Pain Questionnaire. Pain. 1985 Oct;23(2):101-12.




Copyright © 2012 APN. All Rights Reserved.

                                Joomla! is Free Software released under the GNU/GPL License.
