Evolve Psychiatry


                                             FINANCIAL POLICY 2022-2023

INSURANCE CLAIMS
Claims will be filed with your insurance company. You will be responsible at the time of service for all co-pays, co-insurance,
deductibles and services not covered by your plan. Financial responsibility for services rendered rest with the patient
regardless of any insurance coverage. Although we will do everything possible to facilitate reimbursement from your
insurance company, we cannot guarantee payment of your claim. We file insurance as a courtesy. Insurance follow-up is the
responsibility of the patient. If the claim becomes the patient’s responsibility, the claim must be paid within 30 days. All
patients must complete our patient information form before seeing the doctor. We must obtain a copy of your driver’s
license and current valid insurance to provide proof of insurance. If you fail to provide us with the latest correct insurance
information in a timely manner, you may be responsible for the balance of a claim. Claims denied due to “untimely billing,”
where incorrect insurance information resulted in a late or denied claim submission will ultimately be the patient’s
responsibility.

REFERRALS
The patient is responsible for obtaining and maintaining valid referrals required by their insurance company for any and all
covered services. The Patient Success Team, Evolve Psychiatry’s patient services department, will assist in obtaining referrals
for treatments as a courtesy. If the patient chooses to undergo any service without a valid referral, the patient is financially
responsible for the full charges.

MEDICARE
Evolve Psychiatry accepts Medicare PART B. If Medicare is the patient's primary insurance or only insurance, the patient is
responsible for the Medicare deductible and 20% of the charges at the time of service. We will file any secondary insurance
claims if a secondary payor is provided. Patients may be asked to sign a waiver for tests/procedures that Medicare does not
cover. Patients have the right to refuse these tests/procedures and will be asked to sign a waiver stating that they refused
these tests/procedures upon each appointment.

SELF-PAY
Self-pay accounts are patients without insurance coverage, patients covered by insurance plans in which the office does not
participate, or patients without an insurance card on file with us. We do not accept attorney letters or contingency
payments. It is always the patient’s responsibility to know if our office is participating with their plan. If there is a
discrepancy with our information, the patient will be considered self-pay unless otherwise proven. Evolve Psychiatry charges
for time spent with the provider on records review, direct interview, medication or lab orders, documentation, and billing.

NON-COVERED SERVICES
Please be aware that services received may be non-covered or not considered reasonable or necessary by Medicare or
other insurers. Patients must pay for these services in full at the time of visit. Services that are not covered by insurance as
follows:

        Initial ADHD Assessment Forms                                                                    $300.00
        Completing Social Security, short-term disability, FMLA, or school forms                         $ 150.00
        Prior authorization, re-prescribing any controlled substances related to lost                    $ 50.00
        medications
        Medical records request, sent via certified mail                                                 $ 50.00
        Work / school / travel excuse letter, sent via patient portal                                    $ 25.00
                                                                                                                               1
Evolve Psychiatry

        Cancellation or No-Show fee, initial visit                                                     $160.00
        Cancellation or No-Show fee, follow-up visit                                                   $95.00

CREDIT CARD INFORMATION
Evolve Psychiatry accepts all major credit cards, bank cards, and flex pay cards for your convenience. Evolve Psychiatry does
not accept cash or checks.

Evolve Psychiatry is committed to prioritizing your healthcare needs and keeping financial arrangements as simple as
possible. In order to accomplish this in a cost-effective manner for everyone, we require that every patient provide our
practice and/or our designated payment agent with their updated debit/credit card information. The applicable payment
card information will be truncated and “tokenized” by the payment agent in order to help maintain the security of your
payment information.

PAYMENT
Full payment for services are due at time of services rendered unless your health insurance carrier has made prior
arrangements. All copayments and deductibles must be paid at the time of service. This arrangement is part of your contract
with your insurance company. If the patient is not able to pay the balance before their next scheduled appointment, the
patient may be asked to reschedule the appointment or be referred to another provider.

The patient agrees to be fully responsible for any and all charges for services rendered and not covered by his or her
insurance plan. In addition, the patient authorizes Evolve Psychiatry MD, Inc. (“Evolve Psychiatry”) and/or its affiliated
entities or designated payment agent to store patient payment information in the secured manner described above and to
apply charges to patient’s payment card for all amounts owed to the practice for medical visits, procedures or supplies,
including (i) amounts agreed as part of a payment plan, (ii) copayments, (iii) coinsurance (after application of insurance
proceeds), (iv) amounts not covered by insurance and/or (v) fees (if applicable) charged by the practice for failure to keep a
scheduled appointment or provide timely notice of appointment cancellation. Patient acknowledges that it is the patient's
responsibility to maintain up-to-date payment information to avoid disruption in care.

OUTSTANDING BALANCES/COLLECTIONS
Prior to providing additional services to the patient, payment in full of total outstanding balances is required. Patient
understands that payment for any outstanding balance will be either discussed with the patient at the beginning of the
patient's following scheduled appointment, or automatically applied 30 days after the balance is due on the patient's
account, whichever is sooner. In the case of a patient balance that is not satisfied by a charge to the patient's payment
method on file, the patient may receive a monthly statement for the outstanding balance. Patient is responsible for paying
this balance by its due date in order to avoid paying possible interest and late fees on the balance. Patient understands that
transaction receipts will be maintained in the patient chart and are always accessible via the online patient portal. If
payment is more than 30 days past due, the patient may be dismissed from Evolve Psychiatry as per the Dismissal Policy in
the Treatment Consent. After the balance is 60 days past due, Evolve Psychiatry reserves the right to utilize legal resources
such as collection agencies or small claims courts in order to obtain payment for services.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
By signing this notice, I acknowledge that I understand and agree to the terms of this agreement.




                                                                                                                            2
